I’m Microsoft MVP for Microsoft Azure, Takashi Takebayashi
I’d like to tell you a story about the community localization activity for the technical documentation today.
The most important message I’d like to tell you here is
“Just try it”
Let me explain the situation where the current technical document localization is in.
Firstly, documents have been released day by day that human translation cannot keep up with updating.
Even though machine translation helps localization,
the quality of machine-translated Japanese is not good which may occasionally make Japanese developers confused.
When to talk about degree of understanding of English by Japanese, as this graph shows,
there are certain amount of people who are fine communicating with English, with which the original English documents work well.
However, majority of people still prefer to refer to Japanese documents,
and current quality of localized documents are too poor for those audience,
which could be a blocking issue for us to reach to them.
Based on current situation, my suggestion for better technical document localization
is that utilizing machine translation as an initial translation tool
to accommodate with rapid document updates,
while community and I create/submit Pull Request to suggest refinement.
Machine translation learns better localization by Pull Request
Those 3rd and 4th steps
will work not only for better document quality
but also refine machine translation memory for further localization.
Also, I’d like to emphasis the benefit that community members would enjoy through your localization contribution.
The first one is that it’s very helpful activity for the developers who want to read technical documents in Japanese.
The second one is also great
that this contribution is reflected in your Activity on GitHub as it is made by Pull Request and Commit submission.
It is highly awesome for lots of developers who want to feed “Grass” on GitHub contributions.
As a summary,
Let me repeat the most important message here
“Just try it”
Hope this helps facilitating your community activity going forward.
Thank you for your attention